# Jupyter Community Building Committee

The Jupyter Community Building Committee acts on behalf of the Project Jupyter
Steering Council with the objective of growing, building, and connecting the
Jupyter community of users and contributors. A targeted outcome of this
committee's work is to improve the diversity, equity, and inclusion of our
community.

## Areas of responsibility

### Jupyter Community Workshops

The Jupyter Community Workshop program was established in 2018 to bring
together small groups of Jupyter community members and core contributors for
high-impact strategic work and community engagement on focused topics. These
in-person events are particularly useful for tackling challenging development
and design projects, growing the community of contributors, and strengthening
collaborations.

This committee will partner with NumFOCUS to manage the Jupyter Community
Workshop program operations and budget.

### JupyterCon

Global JupyterCon conferences provide opportunities for the Jupyter community
to come together to learn and share.

This committee will drive the strategic direction and broad operational
aspects of JupyterCon, including the partnership with NumFOCUS and the
community leadership for the event.

### Jupyter Community Events Manager

This committee will be responsible for pursuing hiring (through NumFOCUS,
using our existing community-building funds) a Jupyter Community Events
Manager, who would be employed by NumFOCUS and report to this committee. This
person would work with the committee on Jupyter events, such as community
workshops and JupyterCon.

### Operations and Budget

This committee will collaborate with NumFOCUS to serve as stewards and
decision makers to allocate the Project Jupyter funds currently associated
with Jupyter community building at NumFOCUS, including donations and revenue
from Jupyter Community Workshops and JupyterCon.

### Diversity, Equity, Inclusion

Project Jupyter is an engaged and respectful community made up of people from
all over the world. This committee pledges to foster a productive,
harassment-free environment for everyone who participates in organizing or
attending our events. We recognize our work is a highly visible and
potentially impactful way for diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) efforts
to be championed within our global community.

In particular, this committee will:

- Collaborate with the Jupyter Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
  committee (once it is formed) to find new ways to make a positive impact in
  Project Jupyter.
- Apply NumFOCUS DISC Cookbook guidelines where feasible and appropriate in
  events and seek to measure impact.
- Partner with the DEI committee to train and mentor community event
  leadership in DEI efforts for their events, including applying NumFOCUS DISC
  Cookbook guidelines, and asking community organizers for DEI impact in their
  post-event summaries.

#### Definitions

As the field of diversity, equity, and inclusion expands and grows, so does
the terminology and words we use when describing the body of work. As such,
before moving forward we want to address what DEI means. These definitions
were taken from [Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Glossary of
Terms](https://www.pacificu.edu/life-pacific/support-safety/office-equity-diversity-inclusion/edi-resources/glossary-terms?fbclid=IwAR2L-emYgFTSI34bDhWCwSS6LW_oVTi4HT_ZsnzCcX9vQGWl26CzeUFw_3A).

**Diversity**: The wide variety of shared and different personal and group
characteristics among human beings.

**Equity**: Takes into consideration the fact that the social identifiers
(race, gender, socioeconomic status, etc.) do, in fact, affect equality. In an
equitable environment, an individual or a group would be given what was needed
to give them equal advantage. This would not necessarily be equal to what
others were receiving. It could be more or different. Equity is an ideal and a
goal, not a process. It ensures that everyone has the resources they need to
succeed.

**Inclusion**: Authentically bringing traditionally excluded individuals
and/or groups into processes, activities, and decision/policy making in a way
that shares power.

## Reporting

This committee will report to the Steering Council quarterly on all areas of
responsibility, including activities, finances, and DEI efforts. This
committee will also publish an annual blog post for the broader global
community.

## Bootstrapping

Per the guidelines outlined in the governance for forming a decision-making
body, the initial committee will be composed of three current Steering Council
members. Following these guidelines, the intention is for this committee to
grow to include members from the Jupyter community in a way that supports
engagement from a wider group of community members.
